docsv2/wsFederation/overview.md, before:

---
layout: docs-default
---

# Adding WS-Federation Support

IdentityServer has support for the WS-Federation support for both acting as an identity provider as well
as allowing external authentication over the WS-Federation protocol. For external authentication see [here](../configuration/identityProviders.html).

This section is about adding WS-Federation identity provider capabilities to IdentityServer3.

WS-Federation support is a plugin for IdentityServer3 and is implemented using the .NET 4.5 System.IdentityModel.Service assembly.
You first need to install the plugin using Nuget:

 ```
 install-package IdentityServer3.WsFederation
 ```

 You can then wire up the plugin by implementing the `PluginConfiguration` callback on the `IdentityServerOptions` class like this:

```csharp
public void Configuration(IAppBuilder appBuilder)
{
    var options = new IdentityServerOptions
    {
        SiteName = "IdentityServer3 with WsFed",

        SigningCertificate = Certificate.Get(),
        Factory = factory,
        PluginConfiguration = ConfigureWsFederation
    };

    appBuilder.UseIdentityServer(options);
 }

private void ConfigureWsFederation(IAppBuilder pluginApp, IdentityServerOptions options)
{
    var factory = new WsFederationServiceFactory(options.Factory);

    // data sources for in-memory services
    factory.Register(new Registration<IEnumerable<RelyingParty>>(RelyingParties.Get()));
    factory.RelyingPartyService = new Registration<IRelyingPartyService>(typeof(InMemoryRelyingPartyService));

    var wsFedOptions = new WsFederationPluginOptions
    {
        IdentityServerOptions = options,
        Factory = factory
    };

    pluginApp.UseWsFederationPlugin(wsFedOptions);
}
```

The equivalent to an OpenID Connect or OAuth2 client is called relying party in WS-Federation.
Similar to the other in-memory factories (see [here](../configuration/inMemory.html)) the WS-Federation plugin has built-in
support for retrieving relying parties from an in-memory service.

See [here](relyingParties.html) for information on how to define a relying party.

Commit message:

Updated and expanded WS-Federation documentation

docsv2/wsFederation/overview.md, after:

---
layout: docs-default
---

# Overview

IdentityServer3 supports the WS-Federation protocol for both acting as an identity provider and consuming external identity providers. 

For integrating IdentityServer with external WS-Federation identity providers, such as ADFS, see the [Identity Providers section of the documentation](../configuration/identityProviders.html). 
This area of the documentation covers how to add WS-Federation identity provider capabilities to IdentityServer3.

## Installation

WS-Federation support is a plugin for IdentityServer3 and is implemented using the .NET 4.5 System.IdentityModel.Service assembly. 
You first need to install the plugin using Nuget:

 ```
 install-package IdentityServer3.WsFederation
 ```

 The plugin is wired into IdentityServer by implementing the `PluiginConfiguration` callback in the `IdentityServerOptions` class:
 
```csharp
public void Configuration(IAppBuilder appBuilder)
{
    var options = new IdentityServerOptions
    {
        SiteName = "IdentityServer3 with WsFed",

        SigningCertificate = Certificate.Get(),
        Factory = factory,
        PluginConfiguration = ConfigureWsFederation
    };

    appBuilder.UseIdentityServer(options);
}

private void ConfigureWsFederation(IAppBuilder pluginApp, IdentityServerOptions options)
{
    var factory = new WsFederationServiceFactory(options.Factory);

    // data sources for in-memory services
    factory.Register(new Registration<IEnumerable<RelyingParty>>(RelyingParties.Get()));
    factory.RelyingPartyService = new Registration<IRelyingPartyService>(typeof(InMemoryRelyingPartyService));

    var wsFedOptions = new WsFederationPluginOptions
    {
        IdentityServerOptions = options,
        Factory = factory
    };

    pluginApp.UseWsFederationPlugin(wsFedOptions);
}
```

The WS-Federation plugin uses its own ServiceFactory for registering services.
In this case we are registering a list of relying parties and an in-memory implementation of the required `IRelyingPartyService` (similar to the [other in-memory services and stores](../configuration/inMemory.html)).
`IRelyingPartyService` is the only mandatory registration.

A relying party is the WS-Federation equivalent of an OpenId Connect or OAuth2 client. 
See [here](relyingParties.html) for information on how to define a relying party.
